MODERN ARTISTS OF MALAYSIA
==========================


INTRODUCTION
------------


IT may well be the case that in the future, critics and historians motivated by visionary ideals will be able to dramatise the beginnings of modern art in Malaysia by identifying a particular event or production with the intention of personifying its parentage. The history is art is enlivened by such dramatisations, and the discussion of modern art revolves around such heroic moments.

However, going by existing materials and views concerning the historical circumstances in which modern art was initially practised, current opinions indicate a subdued beginning. Existing accounts are agreed that the water-colour productions by Yong Mun Sen, Abdullah Ariff, Lim Cheng Hoe, Tay Hooi Keat and Khaw Sia in the thirties and immediately after the Second World War, signal such beginnings. While there were productions in oils, water-colour was the medium favoured by these artists.

They used water-colour as an autonomous medium. It was an approach that can be viewed as reflecting the negligible and informal position of art activity in the context of the prevailing colonial educational and cultural values, as well as the working methods preferred by these artists.

The educational policy implemented by the British was for the purpose of training local personnel to serve in the various government agencies, especially at the lower levels. For this, competency in the English language was the principle requirement. In addition some knowledge of English history, legal and cultural values and systems were promoted in order to ensure a sense of loyalty to the regime. Art as such did not find a useful function in such a scheme.

Art activity existed in so far as it was pursued by individuals, and occasionally supported by societies and associations which were organised on an informal and unofficial basis. The Penang Impressionists and the Penang Chinese Art Club, which were active in the thirties were two of the earliest group endeavours. They facilitated the organisation of exhibitions and also served as channels for the exchange of information regarding pictorial techniques in an informal manner.

Water-colour is particularly adaptable to suit these conditions. According to traditional classification of picture categories, painting in oils was accorded a pre-eminent position. Oil painting has a defined history and a cultivated tradition. Water-colour, on the other hand (as with drawing), was used as a means for sketching ideas and schemas which were subsequently selected for formal and permanent expression by means of oils. While it has acquired a degree of autonomy, generally, painting in water-colour has not achieved a status comparable to that which has been instituted for painting in oils. In the context of painting as such, water-colour occupies a secondary position.

The choice of this medium can be viewed as coinciding with the prevailing conditions for art activity in Malaysia in the thirties and the post-war years. In this connection, it is not totally accidental that the medium of oils became predominant with the establishment of academies and institutions of art in this country, and with the movement of Malaysians to seek formal training in art, in institutions in Europe and in U.S.A.

There is an additional factor to be considered regarding the use of water-colour by these 'pioneering' artists. It is related to their method of work, which is primarily based on the representation of visual stimuli derived directly from the observed world. Water-colour is suitable for the direct transcription of such observations. Not surprisingly, the principal subject matter is landscape.

The ways in which this medium was employed varied from artist to artist. These variations were partially determined by the interpretations of different pictorial traditions and techniques by the individual artists.

A work such as Yong Mun Sen's Fishing Nets, 1940 (Ill.1) provides a glimpse into one possible approach. The emphasis is not on the subject itself. That is to say, Mun Sen is not interested in providing a detailed, factual depiction of fishing nets; neither is he reporting on their function. He is using fishing nets as a motif for composing patterns of rhythms, employing techniques derived from Chinese calligraphy. The medium of water-colour allows for a translucent and fluid rendering of these rhythms.

The works by Abdullah Ariff featuring landscapes can be appreciated in terms of concretely observed phenomena and anecdotes. In Coconut Plantation — Dawn, 1948 (Ill.2) nature is thoroughly domesticated and pruned. As in the more publicised painting titled Tin Mine, 1952 Ariff conjures an ideal vision of the bountifulness of the Malaysian soil, with its promise of wealth and riches. Khaw Sia's Breezy Day (Ill.3) is a fulfillment of the projection of idyllic rural settings. The depicted scene is a vegetable gardener's hut surrounded by gently swaying coconut trees.

The efforts by these artists are the result of individual preferences and skills. The skills were by and large self-taught, and based on a limited range of traditions and techniques. The aim was to compose a representational image. The preferred image was a means of achieving this aim.

Can a claim for modernity be made on their behalf? I suggest it can and for the following reason: their total reliance on visual data derived from the observed world. Such data are transcribed into images consisting of a blend of impressions and concreteness. It is an approach that generally corresponds with the accepted notions underlying the beginning of modern art as such. And this is important. Otherwise, the adoption of these artists as signalling the beginnings of modern art activity in this country cannot be supported. The claim that artists such as Yong Mun Sen, Abdullah Ariff and Khaw Sia initiated modern art in Malaysia rests on their attitude toward such activity. Admittedly their works did not advance appreciable formal and aesthetic directions. Neither were their attitudes substantiated by consciously articulated aesthetic principles. Nevertheless, the nucleus of notions that are generally identifiable with modern art as such, are discernable in their works. The expansion and consolidation of such notions are the results of  the institutional grounding of art education and of art activity.


PREFACE
-------


"The special problem of the critic in the sixties has been, I think, to locate a tradition of criticism within which to operate." ---Barbara Rose: Art Criticism in the Sixties [1]
THE emergence of modern art implies the existence of a parent tradition. For one of the identifying characteristics of this kind of art activity is its challenge to (and according to some opinions its subversions of) the norms and values of traditional art practices. Generally, modern art as a distinct type of art activity is understood and explained within the framework of such a relationship.
However, by all admissions, there apparently does not exist a history of art in Malaysia which can be usefully considered as constituting a tradition from which a modern art direction can emerge. In this sense it has been repeatedly stated that Malaysia lacks a tradition of plastic arts. And reasons have been suggested for this.
If such be the case, how are we to view and understand the practice of modern art in this country? How are we to explain it, and with what context in mind? A number of alternative positions can be adopted as the bases for answering such questions. And it is important that such questions be answered. We will discuss three such theses.
(1)	That the current view of this issue is erroneous. In other words, an approach with different assumptions may suggest fruitful results. A framework for a relationship between tradition and modernity need not be exclusively governed by formal and stylistic features, as is the general practise. Also, the relationship need not be established only in generic terms. Such a framework can be made up of wide-ranging historical and psychological factors which may be 'extra-artistic' in character and yet provoke possibilities for a relationship. However, existing theories and practices of art studies have not produced such a framework, although the need for one is generally recognised. Obviously it has to be formulated and tested.
(2)	That modern art activity is indeed a totally new type of activity in Malaysia, possessing its own self-defining history. The context for it is to be found primarily in relation to an international tradition rather than a specific historical and national one.
(3)	That which exists as an indigenous art tradition does not have sufficient conditions to qualify as a parent tradition for modern art as such, and that it is an independent activity observing its own structural requirements and satisfying its own contexts.
This does not mean that one tradition does not "borrow" from another. Such borrowings are a special feature of modern art practice, which is highly eclectic in its attitudes toward traditions as a whole. For instance, the most recent works by artists such as Syed Ahmad Jamal, Sulaiman Esa, Ahmad Khalid Yusuf and Ruzaika Omar Basree signify conscious interpretations of formal and symbolic values abstracted from the art traditions of the Malay world. However, such interpretations are transformed and re-stated in the context of modern art practices.
The alternatives we have mentioned do not exhaust all such possibilities. Neither are they to be understood as being mutually exclusive. Nevertheless, there can be little doubt that a context for the critical study of modern art in this country will have to consider issues such as the ones that have been mentioned. And a context is sorely needed.
It is in this sense that the special problem referred to by Barbara Rose in the quotation can be appreciated. Evidently, the need to locate a tradition of criticism within which to operate is not peculiar to the circumstances in Malaysia, but one that is shared by societies that have produced a direction in modern art. Indeed, it pervades all aspects of art critical studies.
In addition to the task of providing a viable context, there are also problems related to material. Even at an elementary level there is no systematic documentation available. Such a deficiency presents itself most starkly when it comes to determining such simple but necessary facts as the chronology of events, dates of exhibitions, titles and years of the production of specific works, and, in a number of instances, their present ownership and location. There are similar problems concerning visual documentation. Most artists have been indifferent towards building visual libraries of their own work, and existing public and academic institutions have scarcely attended to this issue in a competent and consistent manner.
There are, obviously, problems and hazards to which anyone writing on modern art in Malaysia is exposed. We have drawn attention to some of them, perhaps in a bald fashion and for this reason they may appear daunting. They are not, however, insurmountable. And there is ground for optimism. Over the past three years there has been an awareness of the need to confront and address the problems and hazards, however tentative such efforts might be.
It is in this spirit that the present work is undertaken and offered for scrutiny. It presents a selection of artists and their works which, in the view of the writers, have advanced the multiple directions of modern art in a consistent manner and supported by a body of work. In this connection a brief account of the beginnings of this endeavour might prove useful for the reader.
In November 1978, we met with Encik Baharuddin Zainal (Baha Zain), the editor-designate of a new journal devoted to cultural and art subjects to be published by the Dewan Bahasa dan Pustaka, in Kuala Lumpur. The Dewan Budaya was to be a monthly publication, due to make its debut in January 1979.
It was agreed at that meeting that some discussion of aspects of modern art in Malaysia, on a regular basis, would be compatible with the general purpose of the journal. It would also fulfill the need to officially publicise the varied accomplishments of modern art activity for general readership. Given the constraints of space, and bearing in mind the individualistic character of modern art, it was thought best to approach the undertaking in terms of profiles of artists. It was decided that each issue would feature the profile of one modern artist. The project was initially to span two years. We both were to be writers. The choice of the artists, the content, and the selection of the works to be discussed for each profile were matters left to our discretion and judgment...
A monthly expose of the subject had never been undertaken before. The prospect and its possible effects were indeed compelling.
The present publication brings together in a convenient manner the profiles which have appeared in the Dewan Budaya, from January 1979 to February 1981 under the rubric Senilukis Tanahair: Pelukis Moden Malaysia. Twenty-six profiles are included in this book. A number of these profiles had to be revised.
In our selection we have been guided by our perception of the significance of the individual artist's accomplishment in relation to the current notions of the major trends of modern art in this country.
Finally, a remark on the position of modern art in this country. There are opinions to the effect that such an art expression is intrinsically alien to the notions of traditional cultural values of the society. It is even held that such an expression is not only a residue of the colonial era but also an example of a brand of cultural imperialism that continues to be practised by the West, and therefore inimical to conceptions of cultural identity. These are sensitive and anxious concerns, requiring delicate analysis and beyond the scope of this work.
In the context of post-colonial Malaysia, and in societies with comparable experiences, we all share in the tumult of the complex and interlocking processes that have and continue to affect perceptions as to what society had been, is and even should be.
This publication illustrates, in a modest way, that modern art as practised in Malaysia reflects and partakes in these processes. It has a rightful claim as a particular expression of these processes. To adopt an apologetic stance would be self-defeating. It is in this sense that we conclude this preface by quoting Professor Wang Gangwu.
"We are privileged to observe and record changing perceptions of the past, present and future today. It would be a pity if, by not understanding such perceptions.... we miss the chance to explain the vital changes today to our successors." [2]
This is the thrill and advantage of writing on what is happening here and now.
T.K. SABAPATHY
REDZA PIYADASA
[1] A symposium of The Poses Institute of Fine Arts, Brandeis University, Waltham, Massachusets. October House, Inc. New York, 1967.
[2] Perceptions of the Past in Southeast Asia, ed. by Anthony Reid and David Marr, Heineman Educational Books (Asia) Ltd. Singapore, 1979, p. 8.
